ambridge professor says that a change in
drinking habits was the reason for the Industrial
Revolution in Britain. Anjana Abuja reports
A Alan Macfarlane, professor of anthropological
science at King’s College, Cambridge has, like other
historians, spent decades wrestling with the
enigma of the Industrial Revolution. Why did this
particular Big Bang – the world-changing birth of
industry-happen in Britain? And why did it strike at
the end of the 18th century?
B Macfarlane compares the puzzle to a combination
lock. ‘There are about 20 different factors and all of
them need to be present before the revolution can
happen,’ he says. For industry to take off, there
needs to be the technology and power to drive
factories, large urban populations to provide cheap
labour, easy transport to move goods around, an
affluent middle-class willing to buy mass-produced
objects, a market-driven economy and a political
system that allows this to happen. While this was
the case for England, other nations, such as Japan,
the Netherlands and France also met some of these
criteria but were not industrialising. All these factors
must have been necessary. But not sufficient to
cause the revolution, says Macfarlane. ‘After all,
Holland had everything except coal while China also
had many of these factors. Most historians are
convinced there are one or two missing factors that
you need to open the lock.
Anthropological = the scientific study of
people, their societies, cultures etc.
Wrestle with sth = struggle , fight,
grapple, to try to understand or find a
solution to a difficult problem.
Enigma= mystery, puzzle, uncanny.
Puzzle= mystery, enigma, cryptic.
Take off= start out, begin, launch.
Drive= run, energy, ambition,
determination, initiative.
Urban= city, town, metropolitan.
Labour= workforce, workers, employees.
Criterion= standard, principle, rule.
Sufficient= adequate, enough, plenty.
Coal= a hard-black mineral which is dug
out of the ground and burnt to produce
heat.
Convinced= persuaded, swayed, prove.
Tài liệu gốc Cambridge IELTS của NXB Đại học Cambridge-Mua sách gốc tại link
Biên tập cuốn sách Boost your vocabulary này được thực hiện bởi Đinh Thắng & IELTS Family-Các nhóm tự học IELTSBOOST YOUR VOCABULARY 8
C
The missing factors, he proposes, are to be found
in almost even kitchen cupboard. Tea and beer, two
of the nation’s favourite drinks, fuelled the
revolution. The antiseptic properties of tannin, the
active ingredient in tea, and of hops in beer – plus
the fact that both are made with boiled water –
allowed urban communities to flourish at close
quarters without succumbing to water-borne
diseases such as dysentery. The theory sounds
eccentric but once he starts to explain the detective
work that went into his deduction, the scepticism
gives way to wary admiration. Macfarlane’s case
has been strengthened by support from notable
quarters – Roy Porter, the distinguished medical
historian, recently wrote a favourable appraisal of
his research.
D
Macfarlane had wondered for a long time how the
Industrial Revolution came about. Historians had
alighted on one interesting factor around the mid-
18th century that required explanation. Between
about 1650 and 1740,the population in Britain was
static. But then there was a burst in population
growth. Macfarlane says: ‘The infant mortality rate
halved in the space of 20 years, and this happened
in both rural areas and cities, and across all classes.
People suggested four possible causes. Was there
a sudden change in the viruses and bacteria
around? Unlikely. Was there a revolution in medical
science? But this was a century before Lister’s
revolution*. Was there a change in environmental
conditions? There were improvements in agriculture
that wiped out malaria, but these were small gains.
Sanitation did not become widespread until the
19th century. The only option left is food. But the
height and weight statistics show a decline. So the
food must have got worse. Efforts to explain this
sudden reduction in child deaths appeared to draw a
blank.’
17
Propose= suggest, intend, advice.
Goods= items for sale, things, product,
commodity.
Ingredient= element, part, factor.
Flourish= thrive, grow, develop.
Succumb= give in, surrender, submit.
Eccentric= unusual, weird, strange.
Deduction= reasoning, conclusion, logic.
Scepticism = sceptical, doubt, suspicious.
Strengthen= support, reinforce, care.
Notable= important, interesting, excellent,
or unusual enough to be noticed or
mentioned.
Appraisal= assessment, evaluation,
judgment, review.
Wonder= doubt, question, deliberate.
Alight on= to suddenly find, think of or
notice something.
Static= constant, unchanging, still.
Infant= newborn baby, very young child.
Mortality= death, demise, the way that
people do not live forever.
Wipe out= destroy, eliminate, remove.
Sanitation = the protection of public
health by removing
and treating waste, dirty water etc
Statistics= data, information, figures.
Tài liệu gốc Cambridge IELTS của NXB Đại học Cambridge-Mua sách gốc tại link
Biên tập cuốn sách Boost your vocabulary này được thực hiện bởi Đinh Thắng & IELTS Family-Các nhóm tự học IELTSBOOST YOUR VOCABULARY 8
E
This population burst seemed to happen at just the
right time to provide labour for the Industrial
Revolution. ‘When you start moving towards an
industrial revolution, it is economically efficient to
have people living close together,’ says Macfarlane.
‘But then you get disease, particularly from human
waste.’ Some digging around in historical records
revealed that there was a change in the incidence
of water-borne disease at that time, especially
dysentery. Macfarlane deduced that whatever the
British were drinking must have been important in
regulating disease. He says, ‘We drank beer. For a
long time, the English were protected by the strong
antibacterial agent in hops, which were added to
help preserve the beer. But in the late 17th century
a tax was introduced on malt, the basic ingredient of
beer. The poor turned to water and gin and in the
1720s the mortality rate began to rise again. Then it
suddenly dropped again. What caused this?’
F
Macfarlane looked to Japan, which was also
developing large cities about the same time, and
also had no sanitation. Water-borne diseases had a
much looser grip on the Japanese population than
those in Britain. Could it be the prevalence of tea in
their culture? Macfarlane then noted that the history
of tea in Britain provided an extraordinary
coincidence of dates. Tea was relatively expensive
until Britain started a direct dipper trade with China
in the early 18th century. By the 1740s, about the
time that infant mortality was dipping, the drink
was common. Macfarlane guessed that the fact that
water had to be boiled, together with the stomach-
purifying properties of tea meant that the breast
milk provided by mothers was healthier than it had
ever been. No other European nation sipped tea like
the British, which, by Macfarlanes logic, pushed
these other countries out of contention for the
revolution.
18
Deduce= assume, reason, figure out.
Regulate= to control an activity or
process, especially by rules.
Preserve= protect, conserve, reserve.
Malt= grain, usually barley, that has been
kept in water for a time and then dried. It is
used for making beer, whisky etc.
Prevalence= dominance, common,
occurrence.
Extraordinary= strange, unusual,
surprising.
Coincidence= when two things happen at
the same time.
Mortality = the number of deaths.
Dip= fall, decline, drop.Purify = clean, get
rid of impurities, sanitize.
Out of contention= no longer having a
chance of winning something.
Tài liệu gốc Cambridge IELTS của NXB Đại học Cambridge-Mua sách gốc tại link
Biên tập cuốn sách Boost your vocabulary này được thực hiện bởi Đinh Thắng & IELTS Family-Các nhóm tự học IELTSBOOST YOUR VOCABULARY 8
G
But, if tea is a factor in the combination lock, why
didn’t Japan forge ahead in a tea-soaked industrial
revolution of its own? Macfarlane notes that even
though 17th-century Japan had large cities, high
literacy rates, even a futures market, it had turned
its back on the essence of any work-based
revolution by giving up labour-saving devices such
as animals, afraid that they would put people out of
work. So, the nation that we now think of as one of
the most technologically advanced entered the 19th
century having ‘abandoned the wheel